So now that we have upgraded our
laravel app from version 5.6 to 5.7
Now let's make sure that all functionality
of our app still working properly as before.
Firstly let's head over to our terminal and here I've
successfully updated my dependency packages for
my asset.
Now I can run npm run dev to make sure
that compiling asset still working properly
Now
while it's compiling
let's run our server
and run php artisan serve back to our browser
and open our app. Here
I'll reload the page and hopefully we won't find any error
OK
I have no error and all question still being listed.
Now let's create a new question
I'll login first
here
I'll enter title
enter question body
I'll hit ask question button.
Ok new question
added. I'll edit this
hit update.
Now let me delete this question hit
OK.
OK great.
Now I'll see the question details
we have blank page here.
Let's open our browser console.
In here we have failed to mount component
template or render function not defined.
So let's go back to our editor
and open app.js
So
as I said before that when we require the component
like this we need to chain in with dot default
Save
and we need to recompile this
so here npm run dev
Okay let's reload the page
Now
our answer is come back
OK
so far so good.
Now let's try to register a new user to see how email verification feature work.
so let's log out from our app
and then hit the register
here we'll get error like this because when registered
new user now it also send email verification.
But in order to make it work we need to set
up the credentials of our email provider.
So let's go back to our editor
an open .env file
as you can see laravel has shipped with mail trap
email service, but the email and password are
still empty.
You can also change this configuration with other
email provider but to make it easy we'll keep using
mail trap.
So let's go to mail trap home page
mailtrap.io
and here
if you don't have account you can register
for free by hitting this sign up button.
Once you have account you can enter
inbox name and hit create inbox
after that you can go to your inbox
then here in SMTP settings you'll find the user and
password for your inbox. So just copy your username
and password and paste in your .env file.
Let's save
back to our browser
and register another user
hit register
we still get error.
Maybe we need to restart our server
also clear our config cache
enter a new user
hit register.
Now we have no error.
And if we go to our inbox
we'll find verify email address.
Now before we hit this verify e-mail address
button let's go back to our application
and here you can see new registered user has signed in.
Remember this user has not verified his
account but here he can access this page.
Also if we go to all question and hit ask question. Now
to make sure that certain pages can be accessed
only by verified user we need to make a bit change in our routes.
So let's go back to our editor open web.php
and here we need to protect all routes except the root
route and then all questions and show question
route. So to do that
let's define route middleware
and then verified and then group
here
we need to make a little change to this question resource route
let's add in this except index. This mean
show and index route will be exclude.
Next we can move this show question outside this scope
and lastly let's manually define index route for the question
so here there's only four routes that don't need
the user to verified now let's save back to our app.
Here
let's reload the page
here I get unwanted error
class verified does not exist.
Sorry I made typo
reload the page.
Now we'll get this message that tells the user to
verify the email first before do other thing. Back
to mail trap
Hit this button
the user now has been verified.
Let's go back to all questions and hit
ask question and we still get this error.
Let's see our routes again
I'm sure this issue is related to routes order.
So let's move these
on the button.
paste, save, reload the page. OK
great.
OK
now the current user able to create new
question because he has been verified.
Okay great
now we have our application upgraded to Laravel
5.7 and all features working just fine. With that
let's go back to our terminal
kill the server
and here
let's come our changes git add all, git
commit -m "upgrade to laravel 5.7"
Okay
now let's switch to master branch git checkout  master
And then before we merge to our upgraded version,
let's backup this master branch as Laravel
5.6 branch
git checkout -b laravel-v5.6
switch back to master branch git
checkout master
Now we can merge our master branch with laravel 5.7 git merge
laravel dash v
five point
seven